Efficient Inference Kernel for SpQR (#34976)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/quantization/spqr.md

* For large models (LLaMA-30B, LLaMA-65B) specify `max_memory_per_gpu={value}GIB` so that there are free 15-20GIB of GPU memory for each GPU to store activations for calibration. 
* `offload_activations=True` slightly reduces peak memory consumption 
* Typically `LlaMA-30B` requires 1-2 A100 GPUs with 80Gb of memory and `LlaMA-65B` requires 3 A100 with 80Gb each.
* With enough spare GPU memory, one can raise batch size to accelerate evaluation process.

## Inference

This repository also contains an efficient CUDA kernel implementation of the 
SpQR matvec. The file `inference_demo.py` contains a demo of this functionality 
by running end-to-end model inference. Below is an example of how to launch it.

```bash
python inference_demo.py
```

## Citation
```
@misc{dettmers2023spqr,
      title={SpQR: A Sparse-Quantized Representation for Near-Lossless LLM Weight Compression}, 
      author={Tim Dettmers and Ruslan Svirschevski and Vage Egiazarian and Denis Kuznedelev and Elias Frantar and Saleh Ashkboos and Alexander Borzunov and Torsten Hoefler and Dan Alistarh},
      year={2023},
      eprint={2306.03078},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}

> ```

Author: Resolved by updating the README.

<!--Copyright 2024 The HuggingFace Team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# SpQR

> 
> This module contains a single-batch inference kernel for a model quantizated via the SpQR algorithm with a specific 16x16 tile and 3-bit configuration in mind, alsongside unstructured sparsity.
> The compression algorithm is detailed in the research paper "[SpQR: A Sparse-Quantized Representation for Near-Lossless LLM Weight Compression](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03078)".
> 
> The instructions on how to quantize models yourself, as well as all the relevant code can be found in the corresponding GitHub [repository](https://github.com/Vahe1994/SpQR). To run SpQR models simply load a model that has been quantized with SpQR:

Reviewer: I think a few more details about the SpQR algorithm would really help users get a better understanding of it and what makes it unique to all the other quantization algorithms.

```suggestion
[SpQR](https://github.com/Vahe1994/SpQR) quantization algorithm involves a 16x16 tile, 3-bit configuration, and unstructured sparsity as detailed in [SpQR: A Sparse-Quantized Representation for Near-Lossless LLM Weight Compression](https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.03078).

To SpQR-quantize a model, refer to the [Vahe1994/SpQR](https://github.com/Vahe1994/SpQR) repository.

Load a pre-SpQR-quantized model in [`~PreTrainedModel.from_pretrained`].
```

```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer, AutoModelForCausalLM
import torch

quantized_model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    "elvircrn/Llama-2-7b-SPQR-3Bit-16x16-red_pajama-hf",
    torch_dtype=torch.half,
    device_map="auto"
)
tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("elvircrn/Llama-2-7b-SPQR-3Bit-16x16-red_pajama-hf")

> ```

Author: We can't, this is not supported as of yet. This PR only adds Inference support.

> ```

Reviewer 2: Don't forget to update also the overview docs in the quantization section

Author: Could you please provide me with the path to this file?

Reviewer 3: Here is the path @elvircrn : docs/source/en/quantization/overview.md

Author: Done

> ```

Reviewer 2: Is there an HF org that we can add that share spqr quants. Also, would be nice to have a collab so that users can easily try this new technique !

Author: Not sure what you mean by this. Could you please elaborate a bit more on the first part.

Is the collab a blocker for the PR?

Author: I have plans to add the collab as part of the original repo. Just not in the short-term as I am a bit short on time at the moment.
